[TT-12238] docs: Tyk 5.8.14 release notes (#1841)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: developer-support/release-notes/dashboard.mdx

| [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)         | 13.x - 17.x        | 13.x - 17.x            | | 
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3)| v3.0.x                 | v3.0.x                 | Supported by [Tyk OAS](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas) |

Given the potential time difference between your upgrade and the release of this version, we recommend users verify the ongoing support of third-party dependencies they install, as their status may have changed since the release.

#### Deprecations

There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions
<a id="upgrade-5.8.14"></a>

If you are upgrading to 5.8.14, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk).

#### Downloads

- [Docker Image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-dashboard/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.8.14)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-dashboard:v5.8.14
    ```
- Helm charts
  - [tyk-charts v5.2.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#5-2-0-release-notes)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.8.14" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Fixed

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Fix JavaScript Regex Unicode Escape Sequence Handling in OpenAPI Import'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fix JavaScript Regex Unicode Escape Sequence Handling During OpenAPI Import'>
```

We have resolved an issue where JavaScript-style Unicode regex patterns in OpenAPI documents failed validation during API import.

> Previously, when regex patterns containing Unicode escape sequences (like `\u0000-\u017f`) were defined with single quotes in YAML, the YAML-to-JSON conversion process would double-escape the backslashes, transforming valid `\u` sequences into invalid `\\u` sequences that were rejected by Tyk's regex validator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, when regex patterns containing Unicode escape sequences (for example `\u0000-\u017f`) were defined with single quotes in YAML, the YAML-to-JSON conversion process would double-escape the backslashes, transforming valid `\u` sequences into invalid `\\u` sequences that were rejected by Tyk's regex validator.
```

The system now automatically translates these escape sequences during API ingestion, ensuring that OpenAPI documents with JavaScript regex patterns import successfully regardless of whether single or double quotes are used in the YAML definition.
</Accordion>

<Accordion title='Fix Dashboard Certificate Filter for APIs'>
We have resolved an issue where the Dashboard's "Filter by API" feature on the TLS/SSL Certificates page did not return all certificates linked to an API.

> Previously, the filter only displayed certificates used for client-to-gateway static mTLS, ignoring certificates used for gateway-to-upstream mTLS, custom domain certificates, and certificate pinning. This resulted in incomplete and misleading results for users trying to view all certificates actively used by a given API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, the filter only displayed certificates used for client-to-gateway mTLS, ignoring certificates used for gateway-to-upstream mTLS, custom domain certificates, and certificate pinning. This resulted in incomplete and misleading results for users trying to view all certificates actively used by a given API.
```

> The Dashboard now correctly returns all certificate types when filtering by API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dashboard now correctly returns all certificates when filtering by API.
```

</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Fix API Expiry Drifting Back One Day on Save in Positive UTC Timezones'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fix API Expiry Date Drift'>
```

> We have resolved an issue affecting both Tyk Classic APIs and Tyk OAS APIs where the API expiry could drift back by one day each time the API was saved in the API Designer for users in positive UTC timezones (such as UTC+8). Saving an API without changing the expiry is now fully idempotent for both API types, and the expiry value remains stable across repeated saves regardless of the user's timezone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have resolved an issue where an API's expiry date could drift back by one day each time the API was saved in the API Designer. This was reported by users in positive UTC timezones (such as UTC+8). Saving an API without changing the expiry is now fully idempotent, and the expiry date remains stable across repeated saves regardless of the user's timezone.
```

## 5.8 Release Notes

### 5.8.14 Release Notes 

#### Release Date xx April 2026

#### Release Highlights

> **JavaScript Unicode Regex Import**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Fixed an issue where Unicode regular expressions in JavaScript middleware were not properly imported from OpenAPI specifications. This resolves validation and pattern-matching errors that could occur when working with international character sets in API definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> **Dashboard Certificate Filtering**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Resolved a bug in the Dashboard's certificate filter functionality for APIs, ensuring that SSL/TLS certificates are correctly filtered and displayed when managing API configurations. This improvement enhances the reliability of certificate management workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The Dashboard also fixes some CVEs, providing improved performance and security enhancements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This patch release contains various bug fixes and addresses some vulnerabilities in 3rd party libraries, providing improved performance and security enhancements.
```

| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3)| v3.0.x                 | v3.0.x                 | Supported by [Tyk OAS](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas) |

Given the potential time difference between your upgrade and the release of this version, we recommend users verify the ongoing support of third-party dependencies they install, as their status may have changed since the release.

#### Deprecations

There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions
<a id="upgrade-5.8.14"></a>

If you are upgrading to 5.8.14, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk).

#### Downloads

- [Docker Image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-dashboard/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.8.14)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-dashboard:v5.8.14
    ```
- Helm charts
  - [tyk-charts v5.2.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#5-2-0-release-notes)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.8.14" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Fixed

<AccordionGroup>

<Accordion title='Fixed JavaScript Regex Unicode Escape Sequence Handling in OpenAPI Import'>

> Resolved an issue where JavaScript-style Unicode regex patterns in OpenAPI specifications failed validation during API import. Previously, when regex patterns containing Unicode escape sequences (like `\u0000-\u017f`) were defined with single quotes in YAML, the YAML-to-JSON conversion process would double-escape the backslashes, transforming valid `\u` sequences into invalid `\\u` sequences that were rejected by Tyk's regex validator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resolved an issue where JavaScript-style Unicode regex patterns in OpenAPI documents failed validation during API import. Previously, when regex patterns containing Unicode escape sequences (like `\u0000-\u017f`) were defined with single quotes in YAML, the YAML-to-JSON conversion process would double-escape the backslashes, transforming valid `\u` sequences into invalid `\\u` sequences that were rejected by Tyk's regex validator.
```

> The system now automatically translates these escape sequences during API ingestion, ensuring that OpenAPI specifications with JavaScript regex patterns import successfully regardless of whether single or double quotes are used in the YAML definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system now automatically translates these escape sequences during API ingestion, ensuring that OpenAPI documents with JavaScript regex patterns import successfully regardless of whether single or double quotes are used in the YAML definition.
```

- <a href="https://cvereports.com/reports/GHSA-6G7G-W4F8-9C9X" target="_blank">GHSA-6g7g-w4f8-9c9x</a>
- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2026-33186" target="_blank">CVE-2026-33186</a>
- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-29063" target="_blank">CVE-2025-29063</a>
- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2026-33487" target="_blank">CVE-2026-33487</a>
- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-15558" target="_blank">CVE-2025-15558</a>
- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2026-1229" target="_blank">CVE-2026-1229</a>
- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2026-39883" target="_blank">CVE-2026-39883</a>
- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2026-39882" target="_blank">CVE-2026-39882</a>
- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2026-33762" target="_blank">CVE-2026-33762</a>
- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2026-34165" target="_blank">CVE-2026-34165</a>
- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-62718" target="_blank">CVE-2025-62718</a>
- <a href="https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2026-40175" target="_blank">CVE-2026-40175</a>

</Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

---

> 

Reviewer: Missing 5.8.13!

## 5.8 Release Notes

### 5.8.14 Release Notes 

> #### Release Date 20 May 2026

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Release Date 21 May 2026
```

| [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)         | 13.x - 17.x        | 13.x - 17.x            | | 
| [OpenAPI Specification](https://spec.openapis.org/oas/v3.0.3)| v3.0.x                 | v3.0.x                 | Supported by [Tyk OAS](/api-management/gateway-config-tyk-oas) |

Given the potential time difference between your upgrade and the release of this version, we recommend users verify the ongoing support of third-party dependencies they install, as their status may have changed since the release.

#### Deprecations

There are no deprecations in this release.

#### Upgrade instructions
<a id="upgrade-5.8.14"></a>

If you are upgrading to 5.8.14, please follow the detailed [upgrade instructions](#upgrading-tyk).

#### Downloads

- [Docker Image to pull](https://hub.docker.com/r/tykio/tyk-dashboard/tags?page=&page_size=&ordering=&name=v5.8.14)
  - ```bash
    docker pull tykio/tyk-dashboard:v5.8.14
    ```
- Helm charts
  - [tyk-charts v5.2.0](/developer-support/release-notes/helm-chart#5-2-0-release-notes)

#### Changelog
<a id="Changelog-v5.8.14" data-scroll-offset></a>

##### Fixed

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='Fix JavaScript Regex Unicode Escape Sequence Handling During OpenAPI Import'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fixed JavaScript regex unicode escape sequence handling during OpenAPI import'>
```

We have resolved an issue where JavaScript-style Unicode regex patterns in OpenAPI documents failed validation during API import.

Previously, when regex patterns containing Unicode escape sequences (for example `\u0000-\u017f`) were defined with single quotes in YAML, the YAML-to-JSON conversion process would double-escape the backslashes, transforming valid `\u` sequences into invalid `\\u` sequences that were rejected by Tyk's regex validator.

The system now automatically translates these escape sequences during API ingestion, ensuring that OpenAPI documents with JavaScript regex patterns import successfully regardless of whether single or double quotes are used in the YAML definition.
</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Fix Dashboard Certificate Filter for APIs'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fixed behavior of Filter by APIs option in certificate list'>
```

> We have resolved an issue where the Dashboard's "Filter by API" feature on the TLS/SSL Certificates page did not return all certificates linked to an API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have resolved an issue where the "Filter by API" feature on the TLS/SSL Certificates page did not return all certificates linked to an API.
```

Previously, the filter only displayed certificates used for client-to-gateway mTLS, ignoring certificates used for gateway-to-upstream mTLS, custom domain certificates, and certificate pinning. This resulted in incomplete and misleading results for users trying to view all certificates actively used by a given API.

The Dashboard now correctly returns all certificates when filtering by API.
</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Fix API Expiry Date Drift'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Fix API expiry date drift'>
```

We have resolved an issue where an API's expiry date could drift back by one day each time the API was saved in the API Designer. This was reported by users in positive UTC timezones (such as UTC+8). Saving an API without changing the expiry is now fully idempotent, and the expiry date remains stable across repeated saves regardless of the user's timezone.
</Accordion>

> <Accordion title='Resolve Gateway Registration Failures at Scale on Unlimited Node Licenses'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Resolved Gateway registration failures at scale with Unlimited Node licenses'>
```

We have resolved a set of related issues affecting Gateway registration with the Dashboard at scale for deployments using an **unlimited node license**. During mass registrations or rolling upgrades, a combination of lock contention, excessive Redis load, and incorrect handling of `409 Conflict` responses could leave Gateways stuck in registration loops without the credentials needed to serve traffic.

Gateway registration is now significantly more robust at scale: registration requests are no longer serialized across the fleet, Gateways recover cleanly from transient `409 Conflict` responses instead of looping, and the Redis load generated during registration storms is substantially reduced.

A dedicated fix for **limited node license** deployments will be provided in an upcoming release.
</Accordion>

</AccordionGroup>

##### Security Fixes

<AccordionGroup>

> <Accordion title='CVE fixed'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Accordion title='Resolved CVEs'>
```
